So let's take a closer look at the Redshift architecture.
So a redshift is actually a cluster and the cluster would be composed
of one leader node and one or more compute nodes.
Actually you can start from a single node if you like.
So the leader node is the one actually which interacts with the outside world.
So all your client applications actually talk to the leader node using protocols like
JDBC or ODBC and to them that that's actually like any other normal database.
However under the hood the leader node has under its command a number of compute nodes.
The leader node coordinates the work of those compute nodes together.
It handles also external communication as we said.
And it optimizes query execution.
So it puts a plan on what goes where and how they should work together.
The compute node each has own CPU memory and disk and one can
actually configure how much powerful the cluster one wishes to construct will be.
And basically it's up to you to
configure a little bit whether you want to scale up or you scale out.
When you scale up that means you might not get a lot of nodes.
You get a few of them,
but you get extremely powerful ones or you can say no I'm not going to get the most
powerful but I'm going to get lots of kind of medium ones.
And there are trade-offs and a little bit of art of design here to handle this.
What's important to mention here is that each node each
compute nodes is logically divided into a number of slices.
For simplicity you can consider that a slice is a CPU
and that each CPU has a bunch of disks kind of dedicated to its work.
So a cluster with N slices can process N partitions of a table simultaneously.
And it doesn't matter whether these slices
are on one machine or many machines I mean we think of the sum of
all slices across all compute nodes and that would be our unit of parallelization.